# Poem Generator

This Python program generates a collection of poems based on the input poems from Edgar Allan Poe's work using a Markov chain model. It also incorporates rhyme and part-of-speech tagging to create coherent and rhyming poems.

## System Requirements

Before compiling and running this program, ensure that you have the following requirements:

- **Python**: This program requires Python 3.x. You can download and install Python from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

- **NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit)**: NLTK is used for text processing and part-of-speech tagging. Install it using the following command:

    ```bash
    pip install nltk
  
- **Pronouncing**: The program uses the Pronouncing library to find rhymes. Install it with:

    ```bash
    pip install pronouncing

## Installation

1. Open your terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory where the code is located.

2. Install the required Python libraries as mentioned in the "System Requirements" section.

## Installation

To generate your own book of poems, follow these steps:

1. Run the Python script:

    ```bash
    python poem_generator+rhyme.py
   
2. The program will generate a collection of poems and store them in a directory named "poems_book."

3. You can adjust the number of poems generated by modifying the num_poems parameter in the create_poems_book function. Similarly, you can change the number of words per line and the number of lines per poem by modifying the generate_poem function.

4. You can find the generated poems in the "poems_book" directory.

## Acknowledgments

- The program uses NLTK and Pronouncing libraries to enhance text processing and rhyme analysis.

- The inspiration for this project comes from the works of Edgar Allan Poe.